Book Now

 Taormina & Mt. Etna - SummerOne Day Fully Guided Excursion

Thursday (7th May till 21st June)

DEP MLA 06:30
DEP POZ 21:30

ARR POZ 08:15
ARR MLA 23:15

Sunday (3rd May till 27th September)

DEP MLA 06:30
DEP POZ 21:30

ARR POZ 08:15
ARR MLA 23:15

 Adults €159.00

 Children €110.00

 Local transport in Malta (Hotel/Harbour/Hotel) only €15.00 extra per person. (VAT included). List of pick up points + timings here.

Summer Excursion
7th May - 27th September 2026
This excursion is only held with a minimum of 15 participants

 Taormina
Sicily’s prime tourist resort was discovered by the British aristocracy in the mid 1800s. Facing Etna and the blue Mediterranean, this peaceful panoramic resort, 206m above sea level was colonized by the Greeks who built a theatre in the Hellenic period – 4B.C. The present Teatro Greco, altered by the Romans, is the venue for classical plays every summer.
The main street, the elegant Corso Umberto, with its cafés, restaurants and boutiques is a bustle of nationalities. Mt. Etna
The largest and most active volcano in Europe. The climb to the crater takes us through picturesque villages and an ever changing landscape. The lower slopes of the volcano are extremely fertile with groves of oranges, lemons and other Mediterranean flora and of course vines which produce Sicily’s best wines. We go through forests of chestnut trees which gradually give way to oak, beech, birch and pine.

Highlights and Inclusions

Arrival at POZZALLO - a typical Sicilian fishing village, gradually regaining its role as the main port of the province of Ragusa.
Departure in air-conditioned coaches, accompanied by English speaking guides.
Departure for Taormina. On the way we pass by Siracusa, the home town of Archimedes and home to the world famous archaeological zone and the University City of Catania, a thriving commercial centre.
TAORMINA: Free time in Taormina to enjoy the unique panoramic view overlooking Giardini Naxos, a former Greek colony, now an international yachting centre. Time for lunch (not included in the price).

On the way to Mt. Etna we stop to sample some typical Sicilian delicacies, including wines / almond sweets and honey; these Sicilian specialities are for sale (no obligation to buy).
MOUNT ETNA: From the SYLVESTRI CRATER at 2000 metres, we have a panoramic view of this vast base of ETNA and the effects of the most recent eruptions. Time for Souvenir shopping.
Depart for Malta by High Speed Catamaran at 2130hrs.
Adults: €159 (including EU ETS).
Children 4 years till under 14years: €110 (including EU ETS).
Children under 4 years FREE of charge. To pay local transport only. (if applicable)
Local transport in Malta (Hotel/Harbour/Hotel) only €15.00 extra per person. (VAT included). List of pick up points + timings here.
The company reserves the right to introduce a fuel surcharge from time to time without prior notice.
The itinerary of this excursion may be altered subject to weather conditions.
Virtu Ferries Conditions of Carriage apply.